Updates Backend usage documents and makes global cache unexperimental (#1303)
zonemaster/zonemaster: docs/public/using/backend/Using-Zonemaster-Backend-for-batch-testing.md

## Introduction

In [Using the Backend RPCAPI] it is shown how a test of a single domain name
(zone) can be started using the RPC-API interface to Zonemaster-Backend. It is also
possible to start a batch of domain names at the same time. In principle such
a batch is the same thing as running the `start_domain_test` individually for each
domain name in the batch.

This document will describe how batches of domain name tests can be run and what
to think about when running batches, especially large ones.

Zonemaster-Backend uses a database to store information on enqueued tests and
results from tests. It is possible to use SQLite as the database backend for
small installations and test installations, but that is not useful for running
real batches on. Therefore in this document it is assumed that Backend has been
installed with [MariaDB/MySQL] or [PostgreSQL].

## Combining GUI and batch

Both GUI and batch uses Zonemaster-Backend that stores the data in the database.
If the same database is used, then all tests run, independently if they are
started via GUI or a batch, will be available in the GUI interface indirectly

> using the `get_test_history` (see relevant section in

Author: Fixed.

## Configuration to run batches

To start a batch job, setting `enable_add_batch_job` in [backend_config.ini] must
be enabled (*enabled* by default). Moreover a special user must also be available.
To create that user setting `enable_add_api_user` must be enabled
(*disabled* by default). (See below for how to create the user.) Note that this setting
only needs to be enabled while creating the user(s), not when starting a batch job.

After changing these settings, the RPCAPI daemon must be restarted.

It is not recommended to enable `enable_add_api_user` for an RPCAPI that can be
used by untrusted users, e.g. via GUI. If the installation for the batch jobs
is a dedicated installation, then it is not an issue. If it is used by a public
GUI that could be closed while the batch user or users are created, then that
could be an option. Creating the user only takes as long time as it takes to
type the command in, i.e. seconds

Another option is to create new RPCAPI to the same Backend (the same database).
A Backend can have several parallel RPCAPI running with different configuration,
see [Create an additional RPCAPI].

## Create batch user

> In [Using the Backend RPCAPI] it is shown how `zmb` can be used for several

Reviewer: "It" is used for different purposes in this paragraph.

```suggestion
The [using the Backend RPCAPI] guide shows how `zmb` can be used for several
```

RPCAPI tasks. It can also be used for the creation of the batch user. It is now
assumed that `enable_add_api_user` is enabled or else 

> `"message": "Procedure 'add_api_user' not found"` will be outputted.

Reviewer: > It is now assumed that `enable_add_api_user` is enabled or else 
`"message": "Procedure 'add_api_user' not found"` will be outputted.

This sentence is giving me trouble. Assumed by whom, and when is now? I have a feeling the passive voice is making it more difficult to parse than it needs to be.

Author: Updated. I hope it will work better now.

Run `zmb add_api_user --username myuser --api-key mykey | jq` where `myuser` is

> the user name of your choice and `mykey` the password, which should probably be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a user name of your choice and `mykey` the password, which should probably be
```

longer and more complex. The output is simply

```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": 1,
  "id": 1
}
```

Now `enable_add_api_user` can be disabled.

## Run a batch job

> The `zmb` script is used for that purpose. A batch job can be started with just a few

Reviewer: No need to make assumptions about how it's implemented.
```suggestion
The `zmb` tool is used for that purpose. A batch job can be started with just a few
```

domain names or a list of millions of domain names.

### Start a batch job

> Creating a batch is done using `add_batch_job`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Batches are created using `add_batch_job`:
```

required, and that might not need any GUI at all.

Another aspect of running tests created from batches on the same Backend as tests
created from GUI is prioritization of the tests. By default Backend will run
tests from GUI (or rather by `start_domain_test`) before test from a batch. In
this way GUI users that interactively runs a test does not have to wait for a
batch to complete. A large batch might run for days.

## Configuration to run batches

To start a batch job, setting `enable_add_batch_job` in [backend_config.ini] must
be enabled (enabled by default). To start the batch job, a special user must also
be available. To create that user setting `enable_add_api_user` must be enabled
(disabled by default). (See below for how to create the user.) That setting only
needs to be enabled while creating the user or users, not when starting a batch
job.

After changing the setting, RPCAPI daemon must be restarted.

It is not recommended to enable `enable_add_api_user` for an RPCAPI that can be
used by untrusted users, e.g. via GUI. If a the installation for the batch jobs
is a dedicated installation, then it is not an issue. If it is used by a public

> GUI that could be closed while the batch user or users are created, then that

Author: Will not change.

the user name of your choice and `mykey` the password, which should probably be
longer and more complex. The output is simply

```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": 1,
  "id": 1
}
```

Now `enable_add_api_user` can be disabled.

## Run a batch job

The `zmb` script is used for that purpose. A batch job can be started with just a few
domain names or a list of millions of domain names.

### Start a batch job

Creating a batch is done using `add_batch_job`:

```
$ zmb add_batch_job --username myuser --api-key mykey --domain zonemaster.net --domain zonemaster.se --domain zonemaster.fr | jq
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": 2,
  "id": 1
}
```

Options that are mandatory are `--username`, `--api-key` and `--domain`. Option
`--domain` is repeated for every domain name in the batch. The other options are
optional. For all options see `zmb man`.

The batch ID is found in "result", which is "2" in this case.

Listing the domain names one by one is however cumbersome unless it is a very
small batch as above. A better alternative for a larger batch is to create text
file of the domain names to test, one domain name per line. Comments starting

> on `#` is permitted, which makes it possible to add meta information to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with `#` is permitted, which makes it possible to add meta information to the
```

to increase the performance by:

* Enabling global cache
* Increasing `number_of_processes_for_batch_testing`
* Adding one or more parent test agent daemons
* Adding one or more test servers

### Enable global cache

When a test is executed Zonemaster caches DNS responses for the same test (same
domain name) to increase performance (no need to query for the same thing again).
In the normal case the cache is not shared between different tests (different
domain names). Such global cache can be enabled to get increased performance.

For interactive tests via GUI the global cache is probably not desired. If a user
changes the DNS configuration of a domain then the following tests results should
not be based on old data.

To enable global cache a custom profile must be used. See the instructions in
[Configuration: Global cache in Zonemaster-Engine][Global-cache].

The custom profile is assumed to be `/etc/zonemaster/profile-batch.json`
(Linux) or `/etc/local/zonemaster/profile-batch.json` (FreeBSD).

The custom profile must be added to the Backend configuration to be made
available for the tests. In `backend_config.ini` look for the section

> `[PRIVATE PROFILES]`. Under that add the following line for Linux:

Author: Fixed.

```
batch=/etc/zonemaster/profile-batch.json
```

For FreeBSD add:

```
batch=/usr/local/etc/zonemaster/profile-batch.json
```

After restarting both RPCAPI daemon and Test Agent daemon (all daemons if there
are more than one of each) a batch can be started with (using a batch file):

```

> $ zmb add_batch_job --profile batch --username myuser --api-key mykey --file batchfile | jq

Author: The batch file is used half a page up.

### Increase the worker pool size

A standard Backend installation has a single Test Agent service. Each Test Agent
service maintains a pool of workers. Test Agents monitor the Backend database for
tests and assigns them to workers.

Increasing the size of the worker pool can improve the testing performance. The
improvement is limited by CPU, I/O, memory and the ability of the Test Agent
service to keep its workers busy, so monitor these factors to find the best
configuration.

To adjust the worker pool size, set `number_of_processes_for_batch_testing` in
the [backend_config.ini] configuration file.

### Add more Test Agent services

If the increase of `number_of_processes_for_batch_testing` does not help anymore

> and the server has free resources (IO, CPU and RAM) then adding another test
> agent services (with its pool of workers) can help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the server has free resources (IO, CPU and RAM) then adding another Test
Agent services (with its pool of workers) can help.
```
